Translator: Ghada Khalil Auditor: Ayman Mahmoud
I am a capitalist,
And 30 years after my work in the capitalist domains,
Which spans 36 companies,
He pumped tens of billions of dollars into the market value,
I am not only among the 1% richest, but the 0.1% highest-income.
Today, I have come to share with you the secrets of our success,
Because wealthy capitalists like me have never been so rich.
So the question is, how do we do that?
How do we succeed
On the ever-increasing share of the economy each year?
Is it because wealthy people today are smarter than they were 30 years ago?
Is it because we are now striving more than we used to?
Are we taller and more handsome?
Unfortunately no.
The reason is only one thing:
Economy.
To you the insidious secret.
The job of economists was previously
Is to work for the public good,
But in the era of modern liberalism,
That is today,
They work only for the interests of large companies
And billionaires.
This created a small crisis here.
We could have imposed economic policies
To raise taxes on the wealthy,
And control large companies or increase the salaries of workers.
We have done this before.
But economists of the modern liberal era warned
Against imposing all of these policies and considered it a fatal mistake,
Because raising taxes always stops economic growth,
Also, any form of government oversight
It is ineffective,
And that salary increases always kill jobs.
Well, as a result of that thinking,
Because in the past 30 years, and only in the United States of America,
Has enriched the richest one percent of $ 21 trillion,
While the poorest 50% became poorer with $ 900 billion.
A model of increased social inequality that largely repeats itself
around the world.
However, while middle-class families struggle to survive
With wages that have not increased for nearly 40 years,
Modern liberal economists continue to warn that the only logical solution
To counter the troublesome upsets of austerity and globalization
It is more austerity and globalization.
So what should society do?
Well, what we need is very clear to me.
We need a new economic order.
Economics has been described as a bleak science.
And for good reason. Because as much as it is taught today,
He is not aware at all,
Despite all the impressive accounts.
Indeed, a large number of academics and practitioners have reached out
That modern liberal theories of economics are dangerously wrong,
And that the growing crises, due to the high inequality
Political instability increases,
It is the direct result of decades of corrupt economic theories.
And what we do know now is that the economy that made me so rich is not just wrong,
It is also inverted.
Because it turned out that
Capital is not what creates economic growth.
But people.
And it is not the personal interest that enhances the public interest,
Rather, reciprocity and reciprocity
And that competition is not what leads to our prosperity,
Rather, cooperation.
What we can see now is that the economy is unfair and not inclusive
It can never achieve high and sustainable levels of social cooperation
Necessary to enable contemporary society to thrive.
So where did we go wrong?
Well, it looks like it's getting pretty clear
The basic assumptions that support modern liberal economic theory
Objectively wrong.
So today I want to first show you some of those misconceptions,
Then I explain to you what scientists propose to achieve true prosperity.
Well, the first hypothesis in the economy of modern liberalism is
That the market is an effective equilibrium system,
Meaning that in an economy if something increases, for example, salaries,
It must decrease another component in turn, like jobs.
For example, in Seattle, where I live,
In 2014, when we exceeded our first $ 15 minimum wage in our country,
Supporters of modern liberalism panicked for their precious balance.
And warn, "If you raise workers’ wages,
It will reduce companies ’demand for them,
Thousands of low-wage workers will lose their jobs.
Restaurants will be closed. "
But...
It did not happen.
Unemployment has decreased dramatically,
Seattle restaurants have thrived.
Why?
Because there is no balance.
And because increasing salaries does not kill job opportunities, it creates them.
Because, for example,
When restaurant owners suddenly become required to increase the salaries of workers sufficiently
Makes them able to go to restaurants and eat food there,
It does not reduce restaurant projects,
Rather, it is self-evident that it develops it.
(clap)
Thank you.
The second hypothesis is
That the price is always equal to its value,
Which means that if you earn $ 50,000 a year,
And I make $ 50 million a year,
The reason for this is that I have produced a thousand times more value than they produce.
And now,
It will not surprise you to learn
This is a very comfortable hypothesis
If you are a CEO you pay yourself $ 50 million a year
While meager salaries are paid to your workers.
But please, get advice from someone who has run a lot of business and projects,
This is not logical.
People do not get salaries according to their value.
Rather, they get it according to their ability to negotiate.
The wage share of the gross domestic product decreases
It is not because workers have become less productive.
Rather, business owners have become more powerful.
And...
(clap)
And it seems that the huge imbalance of power between capital and labor
Not Found,
It became theories of modern liberalism
It is basically a protection racket for the wealthy.
The third hypothesis, which is the most harmful so far,
Is the behavioral model
Which describes human beings as "economic people."
Which basically means that we are all selfish,
Completely rational, and our interests continuously amplified.
But just ask yourselves,
Is it reasonable that every time, throughout your entire life,
Where you were doing something nice for someone else,
Were you doing that just to increase your own self?
Is it reasonable that every soldier jumps on a bomb to protect his fellow soldiers,
Was he doing just that to further his superficial personal interest?
If you thought that was crazy,
It is against any logical moral axioms,
The reason is that it really is,
According to the latest scientific theories,
It is not correct.
But it is that behavioral paradigm
Located at the heart of a tough, cold modern liberal economy,
Devastating on an ethical level,
The wrong thing on the scientific level.
Because if we accept it outwardly
The idea that humans are fundamentally selfish,
Then we took a look around the world
For all the richness that is evident in it,
It makes sense.
It must be true, then by definition,
That billions of individual selfish actions
Magically transformed into wealth and common good.
If we humans are merely selfish creatures who pursue their interests
So selfishness is the reason for our wealth and well-being.
According to the economic rationale,
Greed is a good thing.
Widespread inequality is effective.
The sole purpose of setting up companies
It could be to enrich its shareholders,
Because doing otherwise would mean slowing economic growth
And damage the economy in general.
And this ideology of selfishness
Which forms the ideological cornerstone of the modern liberal economy,
The intellectual approach that produced economic policies
Which has enabled me and my fellow comrades in the top 1% income bracket
From almost all the benefits of economic growth over 40 years.
But,
Instead of that
If we accept the latest empirical research,
And the real sciences that accurately describe humans
That they are very cooperative beings,
And they believe in reciprocity,
In addition to their natural sense in nature,
So it makes sense
It has to be cooperation
It is the reason for our prosperity
It is not selfishness,
Nor our personal interests,
Rather, the reciprocity inherent in us.
That is the great power of humanity.
Thus, in the depth of this new economic system,
There is a story about us that allows us to be in our best form.
However, unlike the old economy,
This story is more honest
She also has the virtue of being real.
And now,
I would like to stress that this new economic system
Not something I personally imagined or invented.
It is a collection of theories and models that are developed and improved
In universities around the world,
Based on some of the best and most recent research in economics,
Like the theory of complexity, and the theory of evolution,
Psychology, and anthropology, in addition to other disciplines.
Although there are no references for that new economic system yet
It was not even agreed on a name for him,
generally
His interpretation of the causes and sources of wealth is very similar to what I explained.
So, market capitalism is an evolutionary system
Richness stands out
Through mutual positive feedback
Show the increasing amount of innovation and the increase in consumer demand.
Innovation is the process by which we solve human problems,
And consumer demand is the mechanism by which the market is chosen
Useful innovations.
The more we succeed in solving more problems, the richer we become.
But as we get richer,
Our problems and solutions have become
more complicated.
This requires increased technical sophistication
Higher levels of social and economic cooperation than ever before,
To produce more specialized products
Represent the new economy.
So the old economic system is right, of course,
That competition plays an important role in how the market works,
But what fails to see
Is that it is a competition between highly cooperative groups.
Any competition between companies, competition between networks of companies,
Competition between peoples.
Anyone who has run a successful project will know
Building a collaborative team includes everyone's talents and skills
It is probably the best plan always to choose a group of selfish fools.
How do we get rid of modern liberalism then,
We create a more sustainable and prosperous society
And more just?
The new economic system proposes only five rules to achieve this.
The first is that successful economies are like parks, not like forests,
In the sense that the markets
Like gardens, you need attention.
And the market is the greatest social technology ever devised
To solve human problems.
But when you are not bound by social or democratic controls,
It inevitably leads to more problems than solutions.
Climate change,
And the great financial crisis that occurred in 2008
They are two small examples of this.
The second rule is
It is inclusion and inclusion that creates economic growth.
So the idea of ​​modern liberalism
Embedding is a luxury
It may only be made available to everyone if we have economic growth. It is a wrong and reversed idea.
The economy is people.
More people included in more ways
It is what leads to economic growth in the market economy.
The third rule is
The purpose of setting up companies is not just to enrich shareholders.
The biggest trick in contemporary economic life
It is the modern liberal perception that the only goal of companies
And the only responsibility of its superiors
Is to increase their wealth and that of their shareholders.
The modern economy must be decided and determined
That is the goal of the companies
It is to improve social welfare for all stakeholders, that is:
Customers, workers,
Society and contributors.
The fourth rule is
Greed is not a good thing.
Being a greedy person doesn’t make you capitalist,
It makes you disordered.
(Laughter)
(clap)
In a society that relies on cooperation on a large scale, like ours,
Social morbidity is a harmful pest in business as it is for society.
Fifth and last,
Unlike the laws of physics,
The laws of economics are optional.
As for the theory of modern liberal economics
I have convinced you that it is an immutable natural law that does not change.
While in reality, they are social norms and prepared information
And built on false science.
If we really wish to have an economy
Fairer, more prosperous and more sustainable,
And if we want effective political systems,
Civilized society,
A new economic system is necessary.
Here is the good news:
If we want a new economy,
All we have to do is choose to have it.
Thanks.
(clap)
Interviewer: Okay, Nick, I'm sure you're getting this question a lot.
If you were never satisfied with the economic system,
So why not donate all of your wealth and join the 99%?
Nick Hanauer: Yes, no, yes, right.
I often receive this question.
"As long as you care a lot about taxes, why not pay more,
And as long as you care about the salaries, why not pay more?
And I can do that.
But the problem is,
It will not make much difference,
I also discovered a plan
Literally a hundred thousand times better.
Interviewer: Okay.
Nick Hanauer: It's to use my wealth to craft information and make laws
That requires that all the wealthy pay
Taxes, and to pay better wages for their workers.
(clap)
and for example,
So the $ 15 minimum salary requirement that we created
It has now affected 30 million workers.
Therefore, this solution is better.
Interviewer: Great.
And if you change your mind, we can find some beneficiaries for you.
Nick Hanauer: Okay. Thanks. Interviewer: Thank you very much.